Machine learning is a subset of Artificial Intelligence (AI) that enables computers to learn from data and make predictions without being explicitly programmed.
If you're new to this field, this tutorial will provide a comprehensive understanding of machine learning, its types, algorithms, tools, and practical applications.



Machine learning teaches computers to recognize patterns and make decisions automatically using data and algorithms.

It can be broadly categorized into three types:

Supervised Learning: Trains models on labeled data to predict or classify new, unseen data.
Unsupervised Learning: Finds patterns or groups in unlabeled data, like clustering or dimensionality reduction.
Reinforcement Learning: Learns through trial and error to maximize rewards, ideal for decision-making tasks.




Supervised Learning
Supervised learning algorithms are generally categorized into two main types: 

Classification - where the goal is to predict discrete labels or categories 
Regression - where the aim is to predict continuous numerical values.


There are many algorithms used in supervised learning, each suited to different types of problems. 
Some of the most commonly used supervised learning algorithms include:

1. Linear Regression

Introduction to Linear Regression
Gradient Descent in Linear Regression
Linear regression (Python Implementation from scratch)
Linear regression implementation using sklearn
Rainfall prediction - Project
Boston Housing Kaggle Challenge - Project
Ridge Regression
Lasso regression
Elastic net Regression
Implementation of Lasso, Ridge and Elastic Net


2. Logistic Regression
Understanding Logistic Regression
Cost function in Logistic Regression
Logistic regression Implementation from scratch
Heart Disease Prediction - Project
Breast Cancer Wisconsin Diagnosis - Project


3. Decision Trees
Decision Tree in Machine Learning
Feature selection using Decision Tree
Decision Tree - Regression (Implementation)
Decision tree - Classification (Implementation)
Types of Decision tree algorithms

4. Support Vector Machines (SVM)
Understanding SVMs
Support Vector Machines(SVMs) implementation
SVM Hyperparameter Tuning - GridSearchCV
Non-Linear SVM
Implementing SVM on non-linear dataset

5. k-Nearest Neighbors (k-NN)
Introduction to KNN
Decision Boundaries in K-Nearest Neighbors (KNN)
Implementation from scratch
KNN classifier - Project

6. Naive Bayes
Introduction to Naive Bayes
Naive Bayes Scratch Implementation
Gaussian Naive Bayes
Implementation of Gaussian naive bayes
Multinomial Naive Bayes
Bernoulli Naive Bayes
Complement Naive Bayes
Introduction to Ensemble Learning
Ensemble learning combines multiple simple models (called weak learners, like small decision trees) to create a stronger, smarter model.
There are importantly two types of ensemble learning: Bagging that combines multiple models trained independently, and Boosting that builds models sequentially, each correcting the errors of the previous one.

 For in-depth understanding : What is Ensemble Learning? - Two types of ensemble methods in ML 

Advanced Supervised Learning Algorithms:



7. Random Forest (Bagging Algorithm)
Introduction to Random forest
Random Forest Classifier using Scikit-learn
Random Forest Regression in Python
Hyperparameter Tuning in Random Forest
Credit Card Fraud Detection - Random Forest Classifier
Voting Classifier

8. Boosting Algorithms
Gradient Boosting in ML
XGBoost (Extreme Gradient Boosting)
LightGBM (Light Gradient Boosting Machine)
CatBoost
AdaBoost
Gradient boosting regressor and XG implementation from scratch
Calories Burnt Prediction - Project
Tuning Hyperparameters in Gradient Boosting
Box Office Revenue Prediction - Project
Medical Insurance Price Prediction - Project
Train a model using LightGBM
Train a model using CatBoost
E-commerce product recommendations using catboost - Project
Implementing the AdaBoost Algorithm
Additionally, Stacking in machine learning is a ensemble learning technique involves training multiple models (usually of different types) and combining their predictions using a meta-model, which learns the best way to combine the outputs of the individual models.
